hi this is gary with macmost now on
today's episode let me show you how to
prepare your Mac for resale so say you
just bought a new mac and you want to
sell your old Mac or pass it along to a
friend what you want to clean off the
hard drive and reinstall the OS so the
new owner has a fresh start and none of
your data is left on the machine so of
course it goes without saying that
you've backed up all your data or
migrated it to a new Mac you don't need
anything on here because you're going to
erase this drive completely so the first
thing we need to do is find the original
install DVDs that came with your mac and
there should be two of them depending
upon which mac you've got once you have
the OS the other may have applications
for instance I life on them now you may
have upgraded your Mac since then so you
may say have a snow leopard disc that
used to upgrade this Mac use the snow
leopard disk instead if that's the case
to boot from this DVD you can stick it
in restart your Mac and hold the CT down
or you can use the startup disk utility
inside of system preferences or you can
simply run the installer application on
the disk and at one point it will ask
you to reboot and it will reboot to the
DVD now instead of charging right along
to the installation of the OS he went
instead take a detour and go up to the
menu bar and choose Disk Utility this
will run the same disk utility
application that you might have used
elsewhere but it will run it basically
taking over the entire screen of the Mac
now to look more or less but not exactly
like this you'll probably only see one
hard drive over here so you select that
one hard drive and you go to erase and
there you can name it just call it
Macintosh hard drive like that keep it
at mac OS extended and then hit security
options before you hit a race so what
you want to do is choose either 0 at
data or seven pass erase you see when
you simply erase a disk the data is all
still there but the links to the data
the links that form the bits into files
are erased so somebody theoretically
still go through the drive find credit
card numbers passwords things like that
so you want to make sure this Drive
is cleaned off like its new so zero out
data is fine security experts will want
you to do seven pass a race which erases
seven times just to be extra sure that
the bits really are zeroed out now once
you've done that you can then hit the
erase button and it will erase that
entire drive and if you do seven pass
erase it may actually take a little
while to do it now once you've done that
then you can quit Disk Utility an
automatically go back to the OS 10
installer and do the OS 10 install next
you may want to take that second DVD if
your Mac came with one and reinstall all
the applications the original things
like I life that came with it if you
don't have that second DVD or you're
using a snow leopard disc or something
else and you don't have those I life
applications to reinstall that's okay
but you may want to note it to the buyer
that it doesn't have ilife and they may
need to purchase those apps separately
and if you don't have the original DVD
you also want to note that to the buyer
because without an install DVD they've
got a mac that they can't restore if
they run into a problem so the price
should be lower then it's up to you
whether you want to connect this mac to
your network and then use software
update update everything on it the OS
security patches things like that you
may want to run software update multiple
times just to make sure you get
everything updated or of course you
could leave that to the new owner the
machine to do but the important thing is
you cleaned off all your data you've
installed a new OS and your Mac is now
ready to be passed on until next time
this is gary with macmost now
want more video tutorials just go to
back most com click on the videos link
at the top of the page and then you can
view all the hundreds of macmost videos
by category